# Date: 2025-08-26

## Working on an assignment for class

Its in the file named "movies.js"

We have to implement 7 functions on an array of objects. We'll explain here the process and thinking behind the code we did for those functions.

3. deleteMovie();

``` js
function deleteMovie(id) {
  for(n of movies){
    if(n.id === id){
      const indexToBeDeleted = movies.indexOf(n);
      movies.splice(indexToBeDeleted, 1);
      return true;
    }
    else{
      return false;
    }
  }
}
const isMovieDeleted = deleteMovie(3);
console.log(isMovieDeleted);
```

Explaination:
For this, we made use of the splice() method. The splice method takes in the index of the element to be removed, so our aim is to get the index of the object when user enters its id. For this, we made use of for...of loop so that we iterate over the array of objects and see whose id matches with the id user mentioned. Once it matches, we find the index of that object using indexOf() method and then use that index in splice method to get rid of that movie and then return true. If not found, then we return false. The reason we did not use  forEach() method is because when we use forEach method, that method continues to loop through all elements even after finding the element and returning true.

4. findDirector()

``` js
function findByDirector(director) {
  const arr =  movies.filter(function(n){
    return n.director === director;
  });
  return arr.map(function(n){
    return n.title;
  })
}
```
Explaination:
We used the filter function to select only those objects that satisfy the given condition—in this case, movies directed by a specific director. The result of filter is a new array containing those matching movie objects. From this filtered array, we then applied the map function to loop through each object and extract only the title property, resulting in an array of movie titles.